---
uid: hs64_ts4231
title: Headstage 64 Ts4231
---

The following excerpt from the Headstage 64 [example workflow](xref:hs64) demonstrates the Headstage 64's position
tracking capabilities.

::: workflow 
![/workflows/hardware/hs64/ts4231.bonsai workflow](../../../workflows/hardware/hs64/ts4231.bonsai)
:::

The <xref:OpenEphys.Onix1.TS4231V1PositionData> operator generates a sequence of
[TS4231V1PositionDataFrames](xref:OpenEphys.Onix1.TS4231V1PositionDataFrame). A
`TS4231V1PositionDataFrame` is emitted when a receiver on the Headstage 64 captures a sequence of 12
optical signals from a pair of lighthouses which occurs at 30 Hz. Therefore, with no occlusions, the
maximum achievable sample rate is 30 Hz per receiver. There are three receivers on the Headstage 64,
so `TS4231V1PositionData` can emit up to 3 `TS4231V1PositionDataFrames` in a single 30 Hz sampling
cycle. Of course, if occlusions cause receivers to miss optical signals, this rate will be reduced. 

The `TS4231V1PositionData`'s `DeviceName` property is set to "Headstage64/TS4231V1". This links the
`TS4231V1PositionData` operator to the corresponding configuration operator.

The [CsvWriter](xref:Bonsai.IO.CsvWriter) operator writes the `Clock` and `Position` members from
the `TS4231V1PositionDataFrame` output by `TS4231V1PositionData` to a file with the following name
format: `uncalibrated-ts4231v1__<filecount>.csv`. Because `CsvWriter` is a _sink_ operator, its
output sequence is equivalent to its input sequence. In other words, its output is equivalent to
`TS4231V1PositionData`'s output. Therefore, it's possible to connect it directly to
<xref:OpenEphys.Onix1.TS4231V1SpatialTransform> which takes `TS4231V1PositionDataFrame` as its
input. To learn how to use this operator to transform coordinates in the TS4231 device reference
frame to a reference frame that is more intuitive or relevant to teh experiment, checkout out the
<xref:ts4231-calibration> tutorial page. 

`TS4231V1SpatialTransform` connects directly to another `CsvWriter` -- this one writes `Clock` and
`Position` members from the `TS4231V1PositionDataFrame` output by `TS4231V1PositionData` to a file
with the following name format: `calibrated-ts4231v1__<filecount>.csv`. The
[MemberSelector](xref:Bonsai.Expressions.MemberSelectorBuilder) operator on the `CsvWriter` to
selects a members from `TS4231V1PositionDataFrame`. The easiest way to place a `MemberSelector` is
is to click the relevant members that appear by hovering over the "Output"
option that appears in the context menu that appears after right-clicking the `CsvWriter` node. The
<xref:OpenEphys.Onix1.TS4231V1PositionDataFrame.Position> member is selected in the workflow to help
visualize the position data by double-clicking the node when the workflow is running. For more
details on visualizing data, checkout the <xref:visualize-data> page.